Consumer-First Energy Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) deny major integrated oil companies (i.e., companies producing at least 500,000 barrels of crude oil daily) a tax deduction for income attributable to domestic production of oil, gas, or primary products thereof; (2) conform tax treatment of foreign oil and gas extraction income and foreign oil related income for purposes of the foreign tax credit; (3) impose a windfall profits tax on major integrated oil companies; and (4) establish an Energy Independence and Security Trust Fund funded by revenues raised by the tax provisions of this Act to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign and unsustainable energy sources and reduce the risks of global warming.

Petroleum Consumer Price Gouging Protection Act - Declares it unlawful for a supplier to sell crude oil, gasoline, petroleum distillates, or biofuel at an unconscionably excessive price in an area for which the President declares that an energy emergency exists. Grants the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) authority to enforce this Act.

Authorizes the President to declare a federal energy emergency if the well-being of U.S. citizens is at risk because of a shortage or imminent shortage of adequate supplies of crude oil, gasoline, petroleum distillates, or biofuel because of: (1) a disruption in the national distribution system; or (2) significant pricing anomalies in the national energy markets for such products.

Authorizes state attorneys general to bring civil actions to enforce this Act. Sets forth civil and criminal penalties for violations.

Directs the Secretaries of Energy and the Interior to suspend acquisition of petroleum for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve until December 31, 2008.

No Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels Act of 2008 or NOPEC - Amends the Sherman Act to make it illegal for any foreign state to act with another foreign state to: (1) limit the production or distribution of oil, natural gas, or any other petroleum product; (2) set or maintain prices for such products; or (3) otherwise take any action in restraint of trade for such products. Denies sovereign immunity or act of state doctrine protections for foreign states who engage in such such illegal conduct.

Amends the Commodity Exchange Act to require the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to: (1) determine that foreign boards of trade subject to CFTC jurisdiction regulate and provide information on off-shore oil trading; and (2) set a substantial increase in margin levels for all oil futures trades, contracts, or transactions.