CPSC Reform Act - Amends the Consumer Product Safety Act to authorize appropriations to carry out the Act and for other purposes.

Creates or modifies provisions relating to personnel and Commissioners of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), public disclosure of information, and rulemaking procedures.

 Requires third party certification of, and provides for tracking and record keeping regarding, children's products.

 Modifies provisions relating reporting of substantial product hazards and corrective action plans.

Requires manufacturers, retailers, distributors, and importers to identify each other.

Modifies provisions relating to prohibited acts, penalties, preemption, and sharing of information with federal, state, local, and foreign government agencies.

 Requires certain manufacturers or distributors to post an escrow or proof of insurance to cover recalls.

Allows enforcement by state attorneys general and provides public and private sector whistleblower protections.

 Bans children's products containing lead and lowers the allowable lead content in paint.

 Requires a study of preventable injuries and deaths of minority children related to consumer products.

 Requires a cost-benefit analysis under the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970.

 Imposes or modifies requirements regarding portable gasoline containers, toy safety, all-terrain vehicles, garage door openers, carbon monoxide, cigarette lighters, and consumer product registration forms.

 Requires development of a risk assessment methodology regarding imports.

Requires publication of a list of product defects that constitute a substantial product hazard.

Conditions importation of a consumer product on the manufacturer's compliance with certain inspection and record keeping requirements.

Requires a database on violations of consumer product safety rules to be used to determine whether a container being imported contains consumer products that are in violation of a consumer product safety standard and whether action should be taken under imported products provisions.