Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act, 2008 - Title I: Policy on Redeployment and Conduct of Operations in Iraq - (Sec. 101) Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the war in Iraq should end as safely and quickly as possible, and our troops should be brought home; (2) the performance of U.S. military personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan should be commended, and their service should be appropriately recognized; and (3) the primary purpose of funds from this Act should be to transition the mission of U.S. Armed Forces in Iraq and undertake their redeployment, and not to extend or prolong the war.

(Sec. 102) Prohibits any person in the custody or control of the U.S. government from being subject to any treatment or technique of interrogation not authorized by and listed in the U.S. Army Field Manual of Human Intelligence Collector Operations.

(Sec. 103) Prohibits funds from being used: (1) in contravention of specified laws implementing the United Nations Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment or Punishment; or (2) to deploy any U.S. military unit to Iraq unless the President has certified to the defense and appropriations committees, at least 15 days in advance, that such unit as "fully mission capable." Allows the President to waive the latter prohibition on a unit-by-unit basis for national security purposes.

(Sec. 105) Makes funds from this Act immediately available to plan and execute a safe and orderly redeployment of U.S. Armed Forces from Iraq. Directs the President to commence such redeployment within 30 days after this Act's enactment, beginning with units that have been deployed in excess of 365 days. Sets as a goal to realize a limited presence and missions (protection of diplomatic facilities and American citizens, limited training and support of Iraqi Security Forces, and engaging in counterterrorism operations against al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations in Iraq) by December 15, 2008. Requires quarterly reports from the Secretary of Defense (Secretary) to the congressional defense committees on the current plan, status, and efforts with respect to the reduction of U.S. forces in Iraq and their transition to a limited presence.

Requires the President to submit to Congress a regional stability plan for the Middle East.

(Sec. 106) States that the amounts appropriated by this Act are sufficient to fully meet the immediate needs of the U.S. Armed Forces deployed to Iraq and defers congressional consideration of additional funding until the first quarterly report required by section 105 is submitted to the Congress.

Title II: Supplemental Appropriations - Makes supplemental appropriations for the Department of Defense (DOD) for: (1) military personnel; (2) operation and maintenance (O&M); (3) the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund; (4) the Iraq Security Forces Fund; (5) the Iraq Freedom Fund; (6) the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund; (7) procurement; and (8) the Defense Health Program.

(Sec. 202) Authorizes the Secretary, in the national interest, to transfer between appropriations up to $4 billion of the funds made available to DOD in this Act. Requires congressional notification of each transfer.

(Sec. 205) Earmarks specified DOD O&M funds to fund the Commander's Emergency Response Program (urgent humanitarian relief and reconstruction in Iraq).

(Sec. 206) Allows FY2008 DOD O&M funds to be used to provide supplies, services, transportation, and other logistical support to Coalition forces supporting military and stability operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Requires quarterly reports from the Secretary to the defense committees on the use of such funds.

(Sec. 208) Designates each amount appropriated in this title as an emergency requirement pursuant to provisions of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2008.

(Sec. 209) Directs the Secretary to report quarterly to Congress a comprehensive set of performance indicators and measures for progress toward military and political stability in Iraq.

(Sec. 210) Prohibits any funds from being used to: (1) establish any military installation or base for providing for the permanent stationing of U.S. Armed Forces in Iraq; or (2) exercise U.S. control over any oil resource of Iraq.